public/initiatives/sandag-bike-lane-funding.md, before:

---
title: Ask SANDAG to Fund Uptown Bicycle Projects
subject: "Request for Support: Funding and Delivery of EAP Projects Critical to Vision Zero & Climate Goals"
logo: bike_sd_square.jpg
logo_url: https://bikesd.org
to:
  - mario.orso@sandag.org
  - lheebner@cosb.org
  - joelacava@sandiego.gov
  - cchavez@chulavistaca.gov
  - lmolina@nationalcityca.gov
  - District1community@sdcounty.ca.gov
  - kmelendez@vista.gov
bcc:
  - campaigns@bikesd.org
---

# Information

SANDAG recently presented a proposed project delivery strategy which withholds construction funding for 2 projects and omits a delivery strategy for 2 more. Request SANDAG make the funding and delivery commitments to complete the EAP!

# Content

Dear SANDAG Chair, Vice Chairs, Members, and Leadership,

I am writing to express support for several bicycle and pedestrian projects originally approved in SANDAG’s 2013 Early Action Program. The proposed project delivery strategy details a path to completion for these key safety and mobility improvements, but they all must be fully funded through construction as the urgent need for these projects cannot be overstated; they must be the highest priority.

- Coastal Rail Trail Encinitas: F St to Santa Fe Dr
- North Park/Mid-City Bikeways: Robinson Bikeway
- Bayshore Bikeway: Barrio Logan
- North Park/Mid-City Bikeways: Howard Bikeway
- Uptown Bikeways: Mission Hills and Old Town Bikeways
- Inland Rail Trail: Phase 4

Another two EAP projects—Pacific Highway and South Bay to Southeastern—are missing from the project delivery strategy entirely and require a commitment from SANDAG to complete. All of these projects improve currently dangerous gaps where it’s unsafe to walk, drive, or ride. Without improvements people like me are forced to continue using these unsafe routes or dangerous alternatives that will result in preventable injuries and deaths.

After more than a decade, further delay is unacceptable. These projects are essential to advancing the region’s Vision Zero, Climate Action Plans, and mode-shift commitments. Without them, SANDAG cannot meet the safety, greenhouse gas reduction, and mobility outcomes it has pledged to deliver.

Every completed EAP project is reducing injuries and saving lives by providing safe and sustainable transportation alternatives. It’s exciting to see continued progress, but communities have been waiting since 2013 for these projects to safely connect. The FY 2027 budget must fully fund any shortfalls to complete these EAP projects.

We respectfully request that SANDAG fully fund and prioritize delivery of these EAP projects.

Best,

{{full_name}}

Commit message:

change wording of bike lane funding campaign

public/initiatives/sandag-bike-lane-funding.md, after:

---
title: Ask SANDAG to Fund Uptown Bicycle Projects
subject: "Fund and Finish the Remaining 8 Early Action Projects"
logo: bike_sd_square.jpg
logo_url: https://bikesd.org
to:
  - mario.orso@sandag.org
  - lheebner@cosb.org
  - joelacava@sandiego.gov
  - cchavez@chulavistaca.gov
  - ccontreras@vista.gov
  - lmolina@nationalcityca.gov
  - District1community@sdcounty.ca.gov
bcc:
  - campaigns@bikesd.org
---

# Information

SANDAG recently presented a proposed project delivery strategy which withholds construction funding for 2 projects and omits a delivery strategy for 2 more. Request SANDAG make the funding and delivery commitments to complete the EAP!

# Content

Dear SANDAG Chair, Vice Chairs, Members, and Leadership,

I am writing to express support for several bicycle and pedestrian projects originally approved in SANDAG’s 2013 Early Action Program. The proposed project delivery strategy details a path to completion for these key safety and mobility improvements, but they all must be fully funded through construction as the urgent need for these projects cannot be overstated; they must be the highest priority.

- Coastal Rail Trail Encinitas: F St to Santa Fe Dr
- North Park/Mid-City Bikeways: Robinson Bikeway
- Bayshore Bikeway: Barrio Logan
- North Park/Mid-City Bikeways: Howard Bikeway
- Uptown Bikeways: Mission Hills and Old Town Bikeways
- Inland Rail Trail: Phase 4

Another two EAP projects—Pacific Highway and South Bay to Southeastern—are missing from the project delivery strategy entirely and require a commitment from SANDAG to complete. All of these projects improve currently dangerous gaps where it’s unsafe to walk, drive, or ride. Without improvements people like me are forced to continue using these unsafe routes or dangerous alternatives that will result in preventable injuries and deaths.

After more than a decade, further delay is unacceptable. These projects are essential to advancing the region’s Vision Zero, Climate Action Plans, and mode-shift commitments. Without them, SANDAG cannot meet the safety, greenhouse gas reduction, and mobility outcomes it has pledged to deliver.

Every completed EAP project is reducing injuries and saving lives by providing safe and sustainable transportation alternatives. It’s exciting to see continued progress, but communities have been waiting since 2013 for these projects to safely connect. The FY 2027 budget must fully fund any shortfalls to complete these EAP projects.

We respectfully request that SANDAG fully fund and prioritize delivery of these EAP projects.

Best,

{{full_name}}
